docs(api): update Deck Slots page for new features in Python API 2.16 (#14146)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/deck_slots.rst

:og:description: How to specify deck slots in the Python Protocol API.

.. _deck-slots:

**********
Deck Slots
**********

> Deck slots are where you place hardware items on the deck surface of your Opentrons robot. In the API, you load the corresponding items into your protocol with methods like :py:obj:`.ProtocolContext.load_labware`, :py:obj:`.ProtocolContext.load_module`, or :py:obj:`.ProtocolContext.load_trash_bin`. When you call these methods, you need to specify which slot to load the item in. 

Reviewer: Repetition: "deck" Can the 2nd instance be omitted?

- "Deck slots are where you place hardware items on your Opentrons robot."

I'd like to say, "Deck slots are where you place hardware items on the working area of your Opentrons robot." but see that the next section introduces the working area and staging area concepts together. In any case, the sentence is fine. Just twice in one sentence, something to consider.

Author: Repetition here to avoid ambiguity. You could say that you "place" instruments on their mounts on the gantry, and they are "hardware". And future hardware could be placed in even more…places.

Physical Deck Labels
====================

Flex uses a coordinate labeling system for slots A1 (back left) through D4 (front right). Columns 1 through 3 are in the *working area* and are accessible by pipettes and the gripper. Column 4 is in the *staging area* and is only accessible by the gripper. For more information on staging area slots, see :ref:`deck-configuration` below.

OT-2 uses a numeric labeling system for slots 1 (front left) through 11 (back center). The back right slot is occupied by the fixed trash.

> .. image:: ../img/Flex-and-OT-2-decks.svg

Reviewer: I would recommend two separate deck images instead of the single image that appears at the end of this section (Physical Deck Labels).

- Flex coordinate system paragraph followed by a Flex deck map image.
- OT-2 paragraph followed by the OT-2 deck map image.

Or, if getting 2 separate images is a burden, consider a caption below the image to make it absolutely clear which map belongs to which robot. e.g., "Fig 1. Flex deck map and OT-2 deck map" (or similar).

![flexDeckmap1x](https://github.com/Opentrons/opentrons/assets/19591929/5a4422ff-8436-461f-9f4f-7223f0ec922d)

![Deck Slots - OT2 map](https://github.com/Opentrons/opentrons/assets/19591929/5c475a12-386e-46b7-bd5e-813775f6f209)

Author: Yep, the only reason to have these in a single image was to keep them to scale, which isn't mentioned and was probably only known to me. Will revisit.

      - 3

.. TODO staging slots and error handling of A4–D4 in OT-2 protocols

Slots A4, B4, C4, and D4 on Flex have no equivalent on OT-2. 

.. _deck-configuration:

Deck Configuration
==================

> A Flex running robot system version 7.1.0 or higher lets you specify its deck configuration on the touchscreen or in the Opentrons App. This tells the robot the positions of unpowered *deck fixtures*: items that replace standard deck slots. The following table lists currently supported deck fixtures and their allowed deck locations.

Reviewer: The colon here makes the sentence abrupt. What about something like this:

"This tells the robot the positions of unpowered _deck fixtures_, which are items that replace standard deck slots).

Or even:

"This tells the robot the positions of unpowered _deck fixtures_ (items that replace standard deck slots).

Or 2 sentences:

"This tells the robot the positions of unpowered _deck fixtures_. These are items that replace standard deck slots.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    
    * - Fixture
      - Slots
    * - Staging area slots
      - A3–D3
    * - Trash bin
      - A1–D1, A3-D3
    * - Waste chute
      - D3
      

> Which fixtures you need to configure depend on both load methods and the effects of other methods called in your protocol. The following sections explain how to configure each type of fixture.

Reviewer: "both" isn't really needed because of "and". This says the same thing:

"Which fixtures you need to configure depend on the load methods and the effects of other methods called in your protocol."

You could even put _and_ in italics for emphasis that both are required.

Author: If we need the emphasis, I'd prefer "both…and" over relying on formatting alone. Perfectly cromulent English and accessible to screen readers.

.. _configure-staging-area-slots:

Staging Area Slots
------------------

> Slots A4 through D4, which are not accessible by pipettes, are always available in the API for loading and moving labware. Using a slot in column 4 as the ``location`` argument of :py:meth:`.load_labware` or the ``new_location`` argument of :py:meth:`.move_labware` will require the corresponding staging area slot in the robot's deck configuration::

Reviewer: Perhaps the clause isn't really needed here. Instead, consider starting the sentence like this:

- "Slots A4 through D4 are not accessible by pipettes, but they're always available in the API for loading and moving labware."

Or, let's define the slots and then move on to say what they can and cannot do:

- "Slots A4 through D4 are staging area slots. Pipettes cannot reach into the staging area, but these slots are always available in the API for loading and moving labware."

You could even add "with the gripper" at the end of that sentence.

Author: Deliberately left out "with the gripper", because you can move labware to/from staging manually.

.. _configure-trash-bin:
    
Trash Bin
---------

In version 2.15 of the API, Flex can only have a single trash bin in slot A3. You do not have to (and cannot) load the trash in version 2.15 protocols. 

Starting in API version 2.16, you must load trash bin fixtures in your protocol in order to use them. Use :py:meth:`.load_trash_bin` to load a movable trash bin. This example loads a single bin in the default location::

    default_trash = protocol.load_trash_bin(location = "A3")

.. versionadded:: 2.16

.. note::
    The :py:class:`TrashBin` class doesn't have any callable methods, so you don't have to save the result of ``load_trash_bin()`` to a variable, especially if your protocol only loads a single trash container. Being able to reference the trash bin by name is useful when dealing with multiple trash containers.

Call ``load_trash_bin()`` multiple times to add more than one bin. See :ref:`Adding a Trash Container <pipette-trash-container>` for more information on using pipettes with multiple trash bins.

.. _configure-waste-chute:

Waste Chute
-----------

> The waste chute accepts various waste materials from Flex pipettes or the Flex Gripper. Pipettes can dispense liquid or drop tips in the chute. The gripper can drop tip racks and other labware into the chute.

Reviewer: As with "deck" above, 2 instances of "waste." I understand this may be deliberate, but also suggest it is repetitive and makes the sentence awkward. Perhaps take something from the quick-start intro/summary?

"The waste chute is a deck fixture for the Flex. It accepts various waste materials dropped into it from Flex pipettes or the Flex Gripper.

> To use the waste chute, first use :py:meth:`.load_waste_chute` to load it in slot D3::

Reviewer 2: Do we want cross-references from `load_waste_chute()` and `load_trash_bin()` to this higher-level page?

The waste chute is installed either on a standard deck plate adapter or on a deck plate adapter with a staging area. If any :py:meth:`.load_labware` or :py:meth:`.move_labware` calls in your protocol reference slot D4, you have to use the deck plate adapter with staging area.

The waste chute has a removable cover with a narrow opening which helps prevent aerosols and droplets from contaminating the working area. 1- and 8-channel pipettes can dispense liquid, blow out, or drop tips through the opening in the cover. Any of the following require you to remove the cover. 

    - :py:meth:`.dispense`, :py:meth:`.blow_out`, or :py:meth:`.drop_tip` with a 96-channel pipette.
    - :py:meth:`.move_labware` with the chute as ``new_location`` and ``use_gripper=True``.
    
If your protocol *does not* call any of these methods, your deck configuration should include the cover.

In total, there are four possible deck configurations for the waste chute.
    - Waste chute only
    - Waste chute with cover
    - Waste chute with staging area slot
    - Waste chute with staging area slot and cover

Deck Conflicts
==============

> When a Flex analyzes a Python protocol, it will check whether there are any conflicts with its current deck configuration. You can't start the protocol run until any conflicts are resolved. You can resolve them one of two ways:

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is a super-meaningful distinction for most users, but for the sake of technical precision: the *app* is the thing guarding against conflicts, not the on-robot analysis. So we could rephrase this, for example:

```suggestion
When you prepare a protocol with the Opentrons App or with Flex's touchscreen, it will check whether the protocol has any conflicts with the robot's current deck configuration. You can't start the protocol run until any conflicts are resolved. You can resolve them one of two ways:
```
